# Running Workout Tracker REST API

## Instructions / Usage
### Environment setup Mac
1) Clone the repository into your favorite IDE.
2) Creating a python virtual environment is recommended to prevent conflicts with you global environment's interpreter. You can do this by running `python3 -m venv <yourenvname>` in your root directory or preferably, use VSCode and follow these steps: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments. Make sure you activate the venv by running `source venv/bin/activate`.
3) If in the root directory of the repo, run `python3 -m pip install -r backend/requirements.txt` in your terminal to install the required packages.
4) To start the backend server, run `uvicorn backend.main:app --reload` in the root directory and navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs to interact with the API in a browser (note: I ran into issues on my windows desktop using 127.0.0.1:8000 and instead you should just use localhost:8000 if you run into CORS issues). I have set up the FastAPI docs in an organized and intuitive way so feel free to use this link rather than running Postman or something equivalent. Postman does work if that is your preference and you can use the same URL to serve it: http://127.0.0.1:8000 or just localhost port 8000. Parameters can be passed through the URL through Postman and the FastAPI docs will have a form that act as the URL params.
5) Once the server is up, a file called `sql_app.db` will be created and you can simply delete the file if you want to restart the database. A new one will be created when the server is started up.
6) Now you can play around with the API to test out its functionality. I'll have documentation below that gives explanations for the api endpoints and their services as well as a high level explanation.

### Environment setup Windows
1) Clone the repository into your favorite IDE.
2) Creating a python virtual environment is recommended to prevent conflicts with you global environment's interpreter. You can do this by running `py -m venv <yourenvname>` in your root directory or preferably, use VSCode and follow these steps: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments. Make sure you activate the venv by cding into your venv file `cd <yourenvname>` and then run `.\Scripts\activate`. If you're running into trouble and you get an error saying you can't run scripts because they're disabled use this and make sure to run PowerShell as administrator: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4037939/powershell-says-execution-of-scripts-is-disabled-on-this-system.
3) Before running the install for requirements, remove uvloop from the requirements.txt file because Windows does not support it and it will still work without it. If in the root directory of the repo, run `py -m pip install -r backend/requirements.txt` in your terminal to install the required packages.
4) To start the backend server, run `uvicorn backend.main:app --reload` in the root directory and navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs to interact with the API in a browser (note: I ran into issues on my windows desktop using 127.0.0.1:8000 and instead you should just use localhost:8000 if you run into CORS issues). I have set up the FastAPI docs in an organized and intuitive way so feel free to use this link rather than running Postman or something equivalent. Postman does work if that is your preference and you can use the same URL to serve it: http://127.0.0.1:8000 or just localhost port 8000. Parameters can be passed through the URL through Postman and the FastAPI docs will have a form that act as the URL params.
5) Once the server is up, a file called `sql_app.db` will be created and you can simply delete the file if you want to restart the database. A new one will be created when the server is started up. Installation of SQLite is not required.
6) Now you can play around with the API to test out its functionality. I'll have documentation below that gives explanations for the api endpoints and their services as well as a high level explanation.
